---
page_title: "authress_role Resource - authress"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages an Authress Role. Roles are assigned to Users for specific Resources using an Access Record. Roles only contain a list of permissions and should be mapped to your existing User Personas. See Roles and Permissions https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/authorization/permissions#roles for more information.
---

# Resource: authress_role

Manages an Authress `Role`. Roles are assigned to `Users` for specific `Resources` using an `Access Record`. `Roles` only contain a list of permissions and should be mapped to your existing User Personas. See [Roles and Permissions](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/authorization/permissions#roles) for more information.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `role_id` `string` - Unique identifier for the role, can be specified on creation, and used by records to map to permissions.
- `permissions` [`permissions_map`](#nestedatt--permissions) - A map of the permissions. The key of the map is the `action` the permission grants, and the value is the permission configuration. This permission key action is case-insensitive. (see [below for permissions properties](#nestedatt--permissions))

### Optional

- `name` `string` - A helpful name for this role. The name displays in the Authress Management Portal.
- `description` `string` - An extended description field that can be used to store additional information about the usage of the role.

<a id="nestedatt--permissions"></a>
### `permissions_map` Schema
Map Key: `permission action` - The key of the permissions resource is the action the user will be authorized to perform.

The Permissions is a map of an action to permissions configuration:

- `allow` `bool` - Does this permission grant the user the ability to execute the action?
- `delegate` `bool` - Allows delegating or granting the permission to others without being able to execute the action.
- `grant` `bool` - Allows the user to give the permission to others without being able to execute the action.


## Examples

### Document Admin Role
This role has the permissions `allow` to `documents:read` and `allow` to `documents:write`.

```hcl
resource "authress_role" "document_admin" {
  role_id = "documents_admin"
  name = "Documents Administrator"
  permissions = {
    "documents:read" = {
      allow = true
    }
    "documents:write" = {
      allow = true
    }
  }
}
```